---
description: Technology that leaves no one behind.
icon: people-roof
---

# Inclusion

With the mission of empowering lives all over the world, MOSIP continues to take steps towards being an inclusive platform. Ongoing collaborations with global universities, research organizations, and strong on-ground teams have sharpened our focus on developing technology that is unrestricted by gender, race, and economic status. Additionally, technology features allow individuals to access services with digital identities through multiple channels, and even in remote areas with low connectivity, ensuring no one is left behind.

Some mechanisms through which the MOSIP platform supports inclusivity is illustrated below:

* <mark style="color:blue;">**Introducer Support For The Undocumented**</mark>
  * The **Introducer concept** in MOSIP allows individuals **without formal identity documents** to be enrolled into the digital identity system. A trusted and verified **Introducer**, such as a community leader or an authorized individual, vouches for the person’s identity. This ensures that **marginalized populations**, including refugees, nomadic groups, and those lacking paperwork, can still obtain a digital identity. By enabling **inclusion through trust-based verification**, the Introducer mechanism helps governments provide **identity access to all**, promoting **social and financial inclusion**.
* <mark style="color:blue;">**Multi-Language Support for Linguistically Diverse Communities**</mark>
  * Multi-language support in MOSIP enhances **inclusivity** by ensuring individuals can interact with digital identity systems in their **native or preferred languages**. This helps bridge **linguistic barriers**, making identity services accessible to diverse populations, including those with limited literacy in dominant languages. By supporting **localization**, MOSIP enables governments to **customize** the platform to suit national needs, fostering **greater adoption, trust, and usability**. This approach aligns with the goal of creating **inclusive and equitable digital identity ecosystems** worldwide.
* <mark style="color:blue;">**Biometric Exception Handling for Individuals with Difficult-to-Capture Biometrics**</mark>
  * MOSIP’s **biometric exception handling** ensures that individuals with **difficult-to-capture biometrics**, such as worn fingerprints or missing biometrics like finger or eyes, are not excluded from digital identity systems. When biometrics cannot be collected, MOSIP provides **alternative methods**, such as marking the biometric modality as an exception and capturing a photograph as evidence, thereby allowing inclusive identity registration for all. This approach ensures that **elderly individuals, manual laborers, and persons with disabilities** can still obtain a secure and verifiable identity, reinforcing **inclusivity and accessibility** in digital identity.
* <mark style="color:blue;">**Enabling In-Home registration with Android Registration Client**</mark>
  * The [Android Registration Client](https://docs.mosip.io/1.2.0/modules/android-registration-client) (ARC) enhances inclusivity by enabling **in-home registration** for individuals who are unable to visit physical registration centers. This portable solution ensures that residents, especially in **remote locations**, can access identity registration services at their convenience. By providing mobility for registration agents and allowing remote registrations, ARC significantly expands coverage and accessibility, ensuring that even those in underserved or hard-to-reach areas are included in national identity systems.
* <mark style="color:blue;">**Ensuring Gender Inclusivity with MOSIP's GenderMag Collaboration**</mark>
  * MOSIP’s collaboration with [**GenderMag** ](https://gendermag.org/)ensures inclusivity by integrating **gender-sensitive design principles** into the **User Interface (UI)** and **Design**. This approach helps identify and address barriers that may disproportionately affect users based on gender, ensuring that the digital identity platform is accessible and effective for **all users**, regardless of gender. This approach emphasizes on creating interfaces that are intuitive and equitable, thus ensuring an **inclusive** user experience for diverse populations.
* <mark style="color:blue;">**Multi-Modal Verification with Inji and eSignet**</mark>
  * MOSIP ensures **inclusivity** by offering multiple **verification modalities** through [Inji ](https://docs.inji.io/)and [eSignet](https://docs.esignet.io/). These solutions provide **secure and convenient** citizen verification across various channels, including **online/offline**, **self-service/assisted modes,** and accessible even with **smartphones, feature phones, or no phones**. This flexibility allows individuals from diverse backgrounds, including those with limited access to technology or support, to easily access and benefit from the services.&#x20;

Through its inclusive mechanisms, MOSIP continues to push boundaries in providing accessible and equitable **digital identity solutions**. By focusing on **universal access** and **adaptability**, MOSIP ensures that everyone—regardless of their background, location, or physical limitations—can benefit from the services enabled by the platform. These efforts reflect MOSIP's commitment to creating a **more inclusive and sustainable digital future** for all.

