# 1.3.0-beta.1 (mock-service & converters)

**Release Name**: 1.3.0-beta.1 (mock-service & converters)

**Release version**: 1.3.0-beta.1

**Support**: Beta Release

**Release Date**: 26th November, 2024

### **Overview**

This release introduces significant updates to the codebase, aimed at ensuring full compatibility with **Java 21**.&#x20;

The key highlights include:

1. **Codebase Enhancements with Java 21 for released repos (mock-service & converters)**
   * This release introduces extensive enhancements to align the codebase with the latest features, optimizations, and requirements of Java 21. These updates ensure seamless compatibility, improved functionality, and optimized performance with the new Java version.
   * As a part of Java migration, the Springboot version was also updated. From here on, the platform will support Springboot v3.2.3.
2. **Mock Service Release**
   * The updated Mock Service is now available, and fully compatible with Java 21. This enhanced tool provides developers a reliable solution to simulate, test, and validate service behaviors in a controlled environment, streamlining the development and testing process.
   * Refer to the [Mock Services Repository](https://github.com/mosip/mosip-mock-services/blob/master/README.md) to learn more about the configuration and working of mock services.
   * Refer to the [MockMDS](https://github.com/mosip/mosip-mock-services/blob/master/MockMDS/README.md), [mock-abis](https://github.com/mosip/mosip-mock-services/blob/master/mock-abis/README.md), and [mock-mv ](https://github.com/mosip/mosip-mock-services/blob/master/mock-mv/README.md)README files for detailed configuration and functionality of the mock services.
3. **Converters Release**
   * The dependent service **converters** and the Mock Service have been updated and released. These tools are now optimized for Java 21, ensuring seamless interaction and accurate conversion between dependent services within the system and fostering improved integration and performance.
   * Refer [here](https://github.com/mosip/converters) to learn more about the configuration and working of converters.

{% hint style="info" %}
**Note:** As we approach the MOSIP platform v1.2.1.0-beta.1 release, the v1.3.0-beta.1  is also part of the main MOSIP platform release.
{% endhint %}

#### **Major Area of Work**

* Mock Services
* Converters

#### Repositories Released <a href="#repositories-released" id="repositories-released"></a>

| Repository   | Tag version                                                                        |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| mock-service | [v1.3.0.1-beta.1](https://github.com/mosip/mosip-mock-services/tree/v1.3.0-beta.1) |
| converters   | [v1.3.0.1-beta.1](https://github.com/mosip/converters/tree/v1.3.0-beta.1)          |

#### Test Report <a href="#documentation" id="documentation"></a>

The scope of mock services testing includes packet processing through automation and manual. Converter testing focuses on image conversion from ISO to JPEG/PNG.

Refer below for the summary of the test outcome:

<table><thead><tr><th width="127">Total</th><th>Passed</th><th>Failed</th><th>Skipped</th><th>Time(ms)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>177</td><td>132</td><td>45</td><td>0</td><td>4,532,079</td></tr></tbody></table>

#### Documentation

* [Mock Services](https://docs.mosip.io/1.2.0/modules/mock-services)&#x20;
